docs: coherent Ory CLI docs, pt.1 (#713)
ory/docs: docs/guides/cli/01_installation.mdx

---
id: installation
title: Installation
---

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Avoid the first headline as it conflicts with the H1 headline :)

<img width="984" alt="Screenshot 2022-03-28 at 17 13 07" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3372410/160430009-a92893ec-711f-4710-90c5-30111e1a696a.png">

Author: Yea, you're right. I typically wouldn't even "dare" to do that but with our layout, I feel that the initial paragraph might get lost w/o its own heading. But yea, I'll remove it.

Ory CLI is a convenient and easy-to-use tool that helps you manage and configure
Ory Cloud and self-hosted projects.

> Its functionality is also essential for self-hosting Ory components and local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Its functionality is essential for self-hosting Ory components and local
```

### macOS

Run this command to install the CLI using Homebrew:

```shell
brew install ory/tap/cli
```

Verify the installation:

```shell
ory help
```

### Linux

Ory CLI works on all Linux distributions. Run this command to install:

```shell
bash <(curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ory/meta/master/install.sh) -b . ory
```

You may want to move the Ory CLI to your `$PATH`:

```shell
sudo mv ./ory /usr/local/bin/
```

Verify the installation after moving to `$PATH`:

```shell
ory help
```

### Windows

To install the CLI on Windows, use [scoop](https://scoop.sh). Run:

```shell
> scoop bucket add ory https://github.com/ory/scoop.git
> scoop install ory
```

Verify the installation:

```shell
ory help
```

### Docker

:::warning

If you run Ory CLI in Docker, you can't Ory Proxy and Ory Tunnel.

:::

```shell
### Pull Ory CLI image
docker pull oryd/ory

### Run image, enter container, and run a CLI command
docker run --rm -it oryd/ory help
```

### Binary

You can download the server and client binaries from the
[GitHub "releases" tab](https://github.com/ory/cli/releases).

To install, add the binary to the `PATH` environment variable or move it to a

> path that's already in your `$PATH`, for example `/usr/local/bin`.

Reviewer: This is basically a copy of https://github.com/ory/docs/blob/master/docs/_common/install.mdx

Can we import that file instead? :)

Author: Thanks for pointing this out! 

No, I don't want to import this. This is a one-off document describing the installation steps for Ory CLI and there has to be a single source of truth for that. This content is not going to be re-used in any other document. If need be, we should link to it. 

What I'd rather do is look at that snippet you linked to and probably delete it. 

From my point of view, imports should be used sparsely, only when there's an actual need to have the exact same piece of content in multiple places.

Author: Just checked what that import is and it's for installing kratos/hydra/keto locally so doesn't really make sense to import the content you mentioned.

---
id: installation
title: Installation
---

Ory CLI is a convenient and easy-to-use tool that helps you manage and configure
Ory Cloud and self-hosted projects.

Its functionality is essential for self-hosting Ory components and local
development. The built-in proxy and tunneling mechanisms help route application
traffic to the appropriate endpoints in a safe and hassle-free manner.

The ability to export configurations allows you to bring your setup from a
self-hosted environment to the cloud and from Ory Cloud to self-hosted setups
alike.

:::info

> The Ory CLI is actively developed. This means that new features are added with

Reviewer: nitpick:

```suggestion
The Ory CLI is under active development. This means that new features are added with
```

or

```suggestion
The Ory CLI is actively being developed. This means that new features are added with
```
